In <cite>36 Hours</cite> James Garner plays Jefferson Pike, a high-ranking American intelligence officer who passes out during a routine courier mission to Lisbon in the days before the Allied invasion of Normandy. When he wakes up, he's in an American military hospital in occupied Germany and the war's been over for years. 

Except it's all a lie. Pike's only been unconscious a matter of hours and the hospital and everyone in it are part of an elaborate plot orchestrated by Nazi scientist Walter Gerber, played by Rod Taylor, to extract information. Much of the plot's success revolves around Anna Hedler, played by Eva Marie Saint, a concentration camp prisoner the Germans have posing as Pike's nurse and wife.

Gerber is convinced the plan will work, but opportunistic Gestapo agent Schack, played by Werner Peters, isn't so sure. Shack gives Gerber thirty six hours to get the desired information, after which Schack intends to resort to more "old fashioned" methods

Writer/director George Seaton delivers the story in a straightforward manner. We see Pike transported to the camp, see the German's dying his hair and placing drops in his eyes to blur his vision, we know Anna is a concentration camp survivor, and we know the SS is breathing down Gerber's neck. When Pike reveals that a good many refugees made their way into Switzerland thanks to a local village priest, we know it's just a matter of time before Pike calls on him to assist his own escape. When Gerber's American accent is explained by his being born in the United States and only coming to Germany when he was sixteen, we know he'll be a "good" Nazi, just like we know Schack, who speaks with a thick accent will be a "evil" Nazi.

Despite all this, the film holds your interest. While Seaton's decision to eschew a "twist" reveal of the Nazi plot may seem a misstep, it actually forces the film to stand on the strength of the story and performances.

That said, one can't help but wonder what would have happened if Sean Connery and Alfred Hitchcock had teamed up on this script instead of <cite>Marnie</cite>.