It’s Johnny Depp in makeup. It’s very good makeup, but Depp doesn’t disappear into the character the way he does some of his more colorful performances. He’s trying, but it’s just him under some makeup.

The script doesn’t help. _Black Mass_ covers a fifteen-year period starting in 1975, as James “Whitey” Bulger, a small-time hood, rises to become a crimelord controlling south Boston. Bulger gained world-wide noteriety after the news broke that he’d been colluding with the FBI for over a decade. We watch Bulger make his initial deal with FBI Agent John Connolly, played by Joel Edgerton. Connolly is from south Boston and feels a sense of loyalty to Bulger. The deal seems straightforward. Bulger provides information on the Italian mob moving into north Boston, and in exchange the FBI leave Bulger alone. All the FBI ask is that Bulger not kill anyone. 

Of course, Bulger kills people. He kills a member of his crew who dared mouth off to him. His gang somehow gets involved in Jai Alai and Bulger orders the killing of the new commissioner to ensure their operation remains smooth. He strangles a young girl after she may or may not have said something to the cops. This last murder was where the film lost me. It’s late into the film and the girl is introduced only for Bulger to kill her five minutes later in a scene that plays like something out of a horror movie. Voilence can be an effective tool to build characterization or advance plot. Here, the filmmakers had run out of ideas.

We meet Bulger’s younger brother, a state senator played by Benidict Cumberbatch. Cumberbatch is a good casting. His Boston accent was jarring at first, but after a bit I stopped noticing it. More important, he’s believable as Depp’s brother. While both men seem too slight for thier parts, at least their convincing as family.

The film invites comparisons with Scorcese’s _Goodfellas (1990)_ and to a lesser degree _The Departed_. _Goodfellas (1990)_ by virtue of the obligatory slow-motion sequence set to period music, in this case Connolly’s victorious march of the Italian mobsters into custody. _The Departed_ by virtue of being set in Boston. Both of those films are superior because they offer a glimpse into the life of a gangers.

_Black Mass_ gives us a lot of play-by-play without any insight.  Despite spending two hours of screen time with him, we never get to know Bulger. We see Bulger build his empire, but have no idea how he spends a typical day. Though the film makes it clear the gang made a lot of money, outside of a pair of cowbody boots, we never see Bulger spend it. When the rest of his crew is boozing up with women in a nightclub Bulger sits removed, his white skin and piercing blue eyes giving his face an undead hue. What motivates him? He’s faced with a tragedy and we’re told this changed him, yet his behavoir seems no different. His mother dies and we’re told this changed him, but again, we don’t see it. Later, he becomes a patron of the IRA. We’re given no explanation aside from his being from south Boston. By the end of the film we know much of what happened in Whitey Bulger’s life. But we know very little of why.
