Early on in <cite>Black Christmas</cite> we're shown a point-of-view shot from the killer's perspective. We know it's the killer because of the heavy breathing. We watch through his eyes as he scales the lattice-work of a small-college sorority house. While the residents are downstairs chatting in the living room, the killer breaks into the attic. This is our first clue that, despite appearing to be an old house with squeaky floorboards, this is a very sound-proof structure.

Soon, we're introduced to Barb, an alcoholic sorority girl played by Margot Kidder in an underrated performance, who answers a prank call from "The Moaner." The Moaner spits, shouts, and hisses a series of obscene, threatening rants, but Barb, half drunk, spits right back. This leads to a rift between Barb and another sister, Clare, who heads upstairs to begin packing for the Christmas holiday, never to be seen again.

The next day, her father arrives at the house in search of his daughter, who was supposed to meet him at the college. When she can't be found, her father and some of her friends go to the police, who, after much prodding, decide to tap the sorority house phone line in the hopes of tracing The Moaner's location. 

The Moaner picks off a few more residents and everything culminates with a final threatening phone call, follwed by the then-original-but-now-cliché "The calls are coming from inside the house!" warning, upon which, instead of running outside and meeting the police who are <em>en route</em>, the last surviving sorority girl Jess, played by Olivia Hussey, decides to stay and, in a fit of acting, yell upstairs for her sisters. Never mind that, if she can't hear the killer yelling into the phone from upstairs, how will her sisters hear her yelling from downstairs? When the sisters don't answer, she, contrary to all reason, grabs a fireplace poker and heads upstairs.

Some minutes later it's all over and the police find Jess passed out in shock, with the now bloody fireplace poker and the equally bloody body of her former boyfriend at her feet. Case closed, she's left to rest upstairs, one room away from the still bloodstained bedroom where two of her sisters were brutally murdered. Then the phone begins ringing again...

Putting aside the film's complete abandon of logic and reason during its finale, <cite>Black Christmas</cite> does have a lot going for it. While it's usually lumped into the slasher genre by virtue of its premise (despite preceding both <cite>Halloween</cite> and <cite>Friday the 13th</cite> and featuring a comparative lack of on-screen violence) it's less a monster movie and more of a mystery focused on the idea of hidden identity.

Like the killer, we're granted a window into the characters' otherwise private moments, when their genteel facades drop and their darker sides show through, whether it be the housemother bubbling over with bitterness, or the sorority sister unwilling to let go of her ambitions in the face of impending motherhood, or her musician boyfriend with a violent temper, the idea of hidden identity pervades the entire film.

Contrasting all of this is the unstaged, lived-in atmosphere that director Bob Clark would revisit later in <cite>A Christmas Story</cite>. From the slushy streets, to the cozy sorority house room, Clark's world <em>feels</em> real, almost familiar, and the introduction of a killer ready to claim his next victim at any time makes for a unnerving experience. All of which is why, despite having a finale that's something of a let-down, <cite>Black Christmas</cite> is worth a look. 
