Howard Hawks once said that a good movie consisted of _"three great scenes and no bad ones."_  Hammer's first entry in its _Dracula_ franchise gives us exactly that.

The first comes early. Jonathan Harker, having arrived at Castle Dracula posing as a librarian, is prowling around the castle's corridors at night. He finds a young woman. She sports ruby red lips, brilliant blue eyes and ample cleavage. She begs Harker to help her escape. Harker feigns ignorance. She persists. His resolve weakens. Grateful, she bursts into tears and buries her head in his shoulder. The music shifts. We see her blue eyes fix on Harker’s neck. Her head tilts back as her eyes close. Her ruby red lips draw back to reveal fangs. She bites Harker.

Just as she does, Dracula (Christopher Lee) bursts into the room with a piercing shriek. Lee is feral and demonic. Shown in close up, His eyes are bloodshot red. His gore-smeared lips are pulled back to reveal blood-covered fangs. The shot lasts all of a few seconds, but it still packs a punch. 

The second great scene happens at about the three-quarters point. Dracula has turned Harker's fiancee Lucy who's now preying on children. Lucy's brother Arthur has gone to her crypt at night, to assure himself that she’s not a vampire. To Arthur’s horror, he finds Lucy returning to her tomb, leading a young girl. Lucy is delighted to see him. “Come, let me kiss you,” she says. There's a hint of lust in her eyes, but Arthur is transfixed. She advances toward him, baring her fangs. 

Before she can consumate the act, Van Helsing (Peter Cushing) appears and thrusts a crucifix into her face. She backs away in agony. Van Helsing, jaw set, eyes full of cold detachment, advances. She's cornered. Van Helsing presses the crucifix to her forehead. The flesh smoldurs and burns, leaving the imprint of the cross. Van Helsing stares down, unmoved. Lucy shrieks and flees back to her tomb.

It's a crackerjack scene that works just as well today as it did half a century ago. The practical effects still look great and Cushing's performance in the scene is perfect.

The third great scene is the finale. Arthur and Van Helsing have chased Dracula back to his castle. Dawn is fast approaching. Van Helsing catches the count before he can disappear down a secret passage. The two grapple. The count looks to have the upper hand until Van Helsing, in an very swashbuckling move, vaults attop a long table, runs the length and launches himself into the air, grabbing the wall's tapestry curtains as he lands, pulling them down to let in the morning sun. Dracula tries to flee, but Van Helsing pins him in place by fashioning a make-shift cross out of candle holders.

I vacillate between this film and Browning’s original for my favorite Dracula interpretation. I prefer Lee’s grittier performance, but I dislike the overt physicality. His Dracula runs, grapples, and digs holes. It makes for more action on screen, but it also lends the character a vulnerability that softens his edge. Also, Lee doesn't have any dialog apart from his introductory scene, which is a shame, since a battle of wills scene between Cushing and Lee would have been dynamite[^1]. One can almost hear Lee's barritone intoning, "You are very wise for one who has lived but a single lifetime."

Still, _Dracula_ (_Horror of Dracula_ here in the US) is a great film. It takes the familiar source material and focuses on the two strongest characters: the Count and Van Helsing.  By paring down the supporting cast and injecting a dash of sex and gore, it makes an iconic story feel fresh and new. Hawks' definition of a great movie may be a bit simplistic, but _Dracula_ is proof that simplicity works.

[^1]: It’s a shame that Lee and Cushing wouldn’t meet again as Dracula and Van Helsing until the disappointing _Dracula A.D. 1972 (1972)_. Cushing starred in the immediate sequel _The Brides of Dracula (1960)_ and Lee returned in the third installment _Dracula: Prince of Darkness (1966)_ which, sadly, lacked Cushing.
