I know where _Interstellar_ went wrong. I knew it the instant it happened. I may have let out a small groan. Up to that point, the movie had the chance to transcend the genre. Instead, it abandoned it. But I’m getting ahead of myself.

It’s three or four generations into the future. The earth is turning into a giant dustbowl. Blight has wiped out all the world’s crops except corn. Matthew McConaughey plays Cooper a former test pilot/engineer who, like just about everyone else, has been forced into farming to survive. He hates it, but he does what he needs to support his two children. A series of gravitational anomalies lead him to the remnants of NASA. 

NASA has a plan to save humanity. They’ve discovered a wormhole near Saturn. On the other side are at least three potentially hospitable worlds. They’ve got a ship and crew ready. They just need a pilot.

Cooper agrees even though it means he’ll miss years of his children’s lives. If he comes back at all.

The flight goes smoothly and the crew passes through the wormhole in a sequence that begs favorable comparisons with _2001: A Space Odyssey (1968)_. On the other side they assess their situation. There are three potential worlds, but the closest and most promising is also just on the outskirts of a black hole. This creates a warping effect with time. An hour spent on the surface of the planet equates to seven years back on earth. 

They agree to be quick. On of the crew will remain aboard the main vessel in orbit, while Cooper pilots a shuttle craft with two other scientest down to the planets surface. The plan is to be in-and-out, but a fatal setback strands them for an hour. When they return to the main craft—just over three hours later for Cooper—twenty three years have passed for the crew member who remained aboard. Cooper checks the equivalent of his mail in the form of video messages. He sees his son graduate high school, get married, he sees the birth and death of his grandson. Cooper has missed it all. It flattens him and us. Never has the isolation of space travel been conveyed like this. Then Cooper gets a message from his daughter. They had a rough falling out as he left, and she’s a full grown woman now, the same age as him. She’s still bitter at him for leaving. 

And this brings us to the point I mentioned earlier. The point where _Interstellar_ loses its way. The film cuts to Cooper’s daughter as she finishes her message. We’re back on earth. No longer alone. Now we have parallel stories, Cooper in space and Cooper’s family on earth. What started as a meditation on mankind transcending earth devolves into a predictable melodrama. The effects are fantastic, and there are some nail-biting set pieces, but the film has nothing new to say.

It’s tempting to say that _Interstellar_’s reach exceeded its grasp. That it tried and failed. I don’t think it tried at all. Rather than explore new themes it settled for the comfort of familiar narrative tropes. Its a movie about the sacrifices involved in leaving Earth, but the film wasn’t willing to make any itself.
