There isn't much plot in <cite>Junior Bonner</cite>, and what little there is doesn't matter much. It's a rodeo movie that's not about the rodeo. Rather, director Sam Peckinpah crafts a slice-of-life vignette about a dying breed of man: the cowboy. Where he once roamed the west on horseback, now he travels from town to town in a beat-up convertible, with horse in tow. The family that once kept the home fires burning while he was off on the drive now has lives and ambitions of their own. The Old West may not be dead, but it's certainly on the slimmest of life support.

Facing the twilight of his career, Junior Bonner, a broke, aging rodeo rider, played by Steve McQueen, returns home to Prescott Arizona for the Independence Day rodeo, to find his parents estranged and his brother hawking trailer housing.

Junior and his father Ace, played by Robert Preston, are men out of their era, wild rovers unwilling and unable to adjust to the changing times, and Junior's long-suffering mother, played so very well by Ida Lupino, loves and resents this in both of them. On the other end of the spectrum, there's Junior's brother Curly, who's  working on his first million selling pre-fab trailer homes with all the slick pressure of a timeshare salesman. This family drama forms a microcosm that Peckinpah uses to explore the changing times. This is a family that loves one another, yet can never be together. Yet, rather than dwell on the negative, Peckinpah keeps the tone light, choosing ultimately to cherish that there still is some place for cowboys to exist in the modern world, even if it travels from town to town on weekends.

It's this mix of nostalgia and family ties that makes <cite>Junior Bonner</cite> so damn compelling. It's a movie that gets under your skin. Not so much by what is said, but by all the things that <em>aren't</em> said. The look on Ace's face when he hears Junior is broke, the look between brothers after Curly decks Junior at the bar, the look between Junior and his mother as he prepares to leave town. The emotions in these scenes are so real and so recognizable, you'll feel them long after the credits roll. It may not have the blood or body count of Peckinpah's more popular films, but <cite>Junior Bonner</cite> still packs a punch.



