Lane plays a Linda, an ambitious secretary out to climb the corporate ladder. Just as her career takes off, she marries Jimmy, an ex-footballer from Princeton played by Morris, who demands Linda leave her job. She reluctantly agrees, and several months later they've settled into a bland suburban existence with Linda playing the role of dutiful housewife. Still ambitious, Linda arranges a promotion for Jimmy and leaves him when he turns it down, moving back to the city and resuming her career. Soon, she's near the top of the ladder, working long nights alongside fellow advertising executive Harry, played by Humphrey Bogart. Jimmy returns to the city alone and throws himself into his work, turning into the driven man Linda always wanted him to be. As Harry makes his feelings for Linda clear, Linda realizes she'll have to chose between Harry and Jimmy.

Let's get this out of the way: there is one, and only one, reason to endure Men Are Such Fools: to see Humphrey Bogart look utterly ridiculous in his unitard swimsuit. A fast-forward button can make this a much more pleasant endeavor, as the rest of the film is awful. Neither of the leads is likable. Lane starts out okay, but as soon as Morris makes his entrance, she goes downhill. You see, Morris' character is a total ass. He bullies Lane's character at every turn, sabotages her career, and disregards her hopes and dreams. Thus, when Lane's character suddenly goes giddy and agrees to marry him, you can't help but lose any sympathy for her. Things get better--briefly--when Bogart shows up. You're practically screaming at Lane to go for him, but instead she only uses him to get back with the lunky Morris. Despite the title, the film makes it pretty clear that it's the women, not men who are the fools. Was this really how it worked in 1938?