<cite>Scarface</cite> tells the story of Tony Camonte, played by Paul Muni, a low-level mafia hood who's ambition is made plain early on when he explains to his right-hand man 	Guino, "In this business there's only one law you gotta follow to keep out of trouble: Do it first, do it yourself, and keep on doing it." The "it" in question is murder, and Tony does plenty as he shoots his way to the top of Chicago's underworld.

Despite the title cards purporting the film to be an indictment of gangster violence, <cite>Scarface</cite> is an exploitation film. While it doesn't glorify violence, in the sense that it does show its consequences, it also show it as an efficient means to an end. The film paints Tony as a man who sees the world as his for the taking, with his success predicated on his willingness to take chances others wouldn't. It's the American Dream: work hard, take some risks and you can have it all. The film trades in this rush, this lure of fast money, godlike power, and above all, limitless potential. 

Given that, along with a body count that's higher than most modern slasher pictures, it's no surprise <cite>Scarface</cite> ran afoul of the censors. Producer Howard Hughes added the aforementioned title cards in an effort to appease them, and when that wasn't enough, even when so far as to reshoot the ending, but when that still wasn't enough, Hughes threw up his hands and released the film with the original ending, and without censor approval.

Granted, the film's not perfect. The comedy bits involving Vince Barnett as Angelo, Tony's dim-witted secretary, feel out of place, and Ann Dvorak's wide-eyed emoting can't measure up to  Muni's measured mania, but they're minor faults in what has become the blueprint for the modern gangster picture.