In <cite>Scott Pilgrim vs. the World</cite> the titular hero, played by Michael Cera, opens the film still pining for his ex-girlfriend, who's the lead-singer of a now-popular band. Unfortunately, his heartache hasn't stopped him from leaving a trail of broken hearts in his wake, the most recent of which is shaping up to be a high-schooler named Knives Chau, who worships Scott with the wide, shining eyes of a groupie. 

Scott soon falls for Ramona, played by Mary Elizabeth Winstead, and the two begin dating. Not that Scott has gotten around to telling Knives. It's right about here that the first of Ramona's  evil exes, Matthew Patel, makes an appearance. He and Scott duke it out in a Bollywood-meets-anime style that's visually inspired. Scott triumphs, but learns there are six more exes to go, leading up to the boss ex, Gideon Graves, played by Jason Schwartzman, all of whom Scott will have to defeat if before he and Ramona can be together.

This is a romantic comedy by way of a video game, littered with game references and loving send-ups of hipster culture (one character has super powers because he's a vegan, which, of course, which makes you a better person). The filmmakers keep the tone light, respecting the source material without taking it too seriously, though the scene with Scott bitterly asking Ramona who she <em>hasn't</em> slept with, feels unearned and out of place.

Fortunately, there's plenty to compensate for this misstep, including a great supporting cast (Kieran Culkin steals all of his scenes as Scott's roommate) and some very inventive visual effects.  <cite>Scott Pilgrim vs. the World</cite> may not be perfect, but it's certainly a lot of fun.