Naive divorcee Winnie Layden wants to open an inn. She thinks she's found the perfect spot in the crumbing New England Colonial tavern home of eccentric Professor Nathan Billings (Karloff). 

Billings is willing to sell, under the condintion that he stay on and finish his work in his basement laboratory. Layden agrees, not knowing that Billings' work consists of zapping traveling salesmen inside a small box in the hopes of creating an army of supermen win the war. And especially not knowing that the Professor's experiments have all been failures up to this point, leaving him with a small morgue full of corpses. Just as the sale is finalized, Layden's condescending ex-husband Bill shows up. Bill is convinced Layden is being scammed, and decides to stick around, if only to prove her purchase was a mistake. 

While poking around, Bill comes across one of the traveling salesman’s corpses, and alerts the town sheriff, Dr. Lorentz (Peter Lorre). Lorentz is also the town doctor, town notary, town councilman, and town treasurer. Lorentz is outraged at first, but after Billings explains his project Lorentz sees the profit potential and the two become partners. 

Except now they're short on test subjects. With no traveling salesmen handy, the two turn their attention to Bill. But before they can off him, traveling powder puff salesmen Maxie (Rosenbloom) shows up, placing what they think is the perfect test subject right in their laps. But before they can begin, they find one of the inn's other guests murdered. Soon Billings and Lorentz are knee-deep in corpses and find themselves hostages of an escaped fascist looking to blow up the nearby munitions depot. 

Despite the mad-scientist and murder-mystery elements, the film plays as a rather gentle comedy, with Karloff coming across as more of a doting Professor than a mad-scientist. His scenes with Lorre are good, particularly the bits with them bemoaning that lack of test subjects, and Rosenbloom segues right in as a dim-witted lunk that can't quite see what Karloff and Lorre are up to. But the two "straight" leads are awkward and stiff, especially Larry Parks, who plays Bill. He overdoes his character's condescension towards his ex-wife and comes across as playing down to the entire film. Thus, Columbia's attempt to cash in on the successful stage play Arsenic and Old Lace is something of a mixed bag. Perhaps the best thing this film can give you is a sense of what might have been, had Karloff been allowed to reprise his stage role in Frank Capra's later film adaptation.