One can imagine the pitch for The Monster Squad: "It's The Goonies (1985) meets Ghostbusters (1984)." A group of tween boys   hold meetings in a treehouse where they obsess over classic monster movies and fend off the intrusions of leader Sean's 5-year-old sister Pheobe. After the boys come into possession of Abraham Van Helsing's diary, they learn of a magical amulet made of concentrated good that holds the forces of evil at bay. Once a century, the amulet is vulnerable to destruction and--you guessed it--that day is just around the corner. The boys resolve to rerieve the amulet, but unbeknownst to them Dracula is in town with plans to destroy the amulet and plunge the world into darkness. To help him, Dracula's recruited the rest of the Universal monsters, the Wolf Man, the Gil Man, the Mummy, and Frankenstein. With the help of their neighbor, Scary German Guy, the boys put thier encylopediac monster knowledge to the test as they face down Dracula and his minions with the fate of the world at stake.

The premise is irresistable to any monster movie geek, and the Stan Winston effects do justice to the source material, but the script is a let-down of cliched cardboard characters and head-scratching nonsense. Why, for instance, does Dracula drive around in a hearse when he can transform into a bat? And where did he get the hearse for that matter? Or all that dynamite? And why dynamite? Tom Holland did a much better job bringing monsters to the suburbs with his Hammer Horror love-letter Fright Night (1985), and Abbot and Costello did a much better job mixing comedy with the Universal icons in Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein (1948).
