Stewart plays John "Scottie" Ferguson, a former San Francisco detective who left the force feeling that his latent acrophobia played a part in the death of a fellow officer. Still recovering from the incident both physically and mentally, Scottie leeches comfort from his motherly ex-fiance Midge. An old acquiatance asks Scottie to shadow his heiress wife Madeline (Novak), whose shipping company he runs, explaining that she believes herself to be posessed and that he fears she may be suicidal. Scottie refuses as first, but changes his mind once he gets a look at the blonde beauty. Scottie trails a trancelike Madeline to a cemetary where she lays flowers on the grave of Carlotta Valdes, a museam where she stares a single painting titled Portrait of Carlotta, and an old hotel where she seemingly disappears. A local bookseller clues Scottie in to tragic history of Carlotta, including that she committed suicide. Scottie trails Madeline to the base of the Golden Gate Bridge, where she jumps into the water. Scottie rescues her and takes her back to his apartment, leading to a smouldering exchange that's broken up by a phone call for Scottie. Madeline slips out, but returns the next day to drop off a thank you note. Worried she may still be suicidal Scottie insists they spend the day together and grow closer, even as Madeline worries that the spirit inside her insists she must die. A day or so later, Madeline appears at Scottie's door in the morning and confesses the details a reoccuring nightmare. Scottie recognizes the setting as a Mission outside the city. He takes Madeline there, determined to prove there's nothing to her nightmares. There, the two confess their love for each other, though a crying Madeline insists it's all too late and runs into the church and up the bell tower. Scottie follows, but his vertigo paralyzes him midway up the bell tower steps and he watches Madeline plunge to her death. The inquest rules the death a suicide and Scottie spends some time in a sanatarium tormented by visions of Madeline and feelings of falling. After his release, Scottie can't seem to resume his old life, and instead haunts the places Madeline frequented, and imagines seeing her in any women who shared her fashion or appearance. Days pass, and a despondent Scottie chances upon Judy Barton, a course woman who, despite her red hair and heavy makeup, bears a strong resemblence to Madeline. The two begin a relationship, but Scottie's obsession compells him to transform Judy into the visage of his dead love. As the line between Judy and Madeline begins to blur, Scottie discovers the dark truth of Judy's identity leading to a second trip to the mission and another tragic climb of the bell tower stairs.

Hitchcock makes the most of the San Francisco locales, using the city's winding, hilly streets as a metaphor for the twisting and turning state of Scottie's obsession with Madeline. His now-classic rendition of the Vertigo effect was inspired. The subtle color theme of associating green with Madeline and Judy helps pull the film together.

Director Alfred Hitchcock loved his blondes. Icey cool, elegant and unattainable, Hitch fell for them hard, and when he couldn't have them in real life, relished the control he had over them in his films, even as he hated himself for not being as appealing to them as he could be. Projecting this onto the film, and Scottie is Hitchcock, a physically and mentally handicapped man determined to mold the rough-around-the-edges Judy into his ideal feminine visage. Watching the film with this in mind, the languid pace and lack of suspense are easily overlooked, as Hitchcock's expression of his own psychosis makes guilty voyeurs of us all.



Vertigo opens with Detective John "Scottie" Ferguson (Stewart) and a uniformed cop chasing a suspect across a San Francisco rooftop. Shots are fired and the suspect jumps to an adjacent, steep angled tiled roof. The policemen follow, but Scottie lands short and begins to slide down the roof. Scottie claws at the tile as he nears the roof's edge and finds a grip on the creaky gutter. The uniformed cop turns back, letting the suspect escape, and extends a hand to Scottie, but Scottie's frozen by his latent acrophobia, as one look down sends the street below falling to dizzying depths. The cop leans out further to try and help the unresponsive Scottie, only to lose his footing and fall to his death. Fast forward. Scottie has quit the police force out of guilt, and now spends his days trying to cure himself of his acrophobia and leeching comfort from his motherly ex-fiance Midge.