features/welcome-back.md, before:

---
:sequence: 12
:title: Welcome Back
:slug: welcome-back
:date: 2014-06-07
:description: >
  Wherein I declare review bankruptcy.
---

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

Commit message:

style viewings, add review and welcome

features/welcome-back.md, after:

---
:sequence: 12
:title: Welcome Back
:slug: welcome-back
:date: 2014-06-07
:description: >
  Wherein I declare review bankruptcy.
---

Hey there, constant reader. Frank here. It's been awhile, huh? Right. Sorry about that. You see, as much as I enjoy writing about movies, I enjoy watching movies even more. And as I watched more movies, my to-review list grew...

I also tinkered with the site. My day job is software development, and I love coding almost as much as I love movies. So I went through several design iterations. I added splash images, transitions, and client-side sorting and filtering. The site looked pretty damn sweet. But all the while, my to-review list kept growing...

Which brings us to today. The top of my to-review list is a movie I saw almost two years ago.

So I'm declaring review bankruptcy.

What's that mean? Well, in a nutshell, I'm starting over. I've still got the list (over in the [viewing log](/viewings)) of everything I've seen since January 1st 2012, but I'm starting over on reviews.

One of my goals when I started the site was to become a better writer by forcing myself to write more. But writing a review for every movie I watch isn't going to help me be a better writer if the reviews are crap.

And a lot of them were crap.

They were crap because I churned them out to clear the queue. I watch too many movies to review them all. So now, instead of trying to review every movie I watch, I'll aim for one review a week. 

That should give me enough time for three drafts per review. Most of the previous reviews were first draft efforts. This should improve the quality while still forcing me to publish the thing instead of tinkering with it for draft after draft. 

Last, to help bring the focus back to the writing I redesigned the site again. The splash images and posters are gone, because finding and prepping them took a lot of time. Time better spent writing.

So welcome back, constant reader. I hope you'll give me a second chance. We've got close to a hundred years of cinema to cover and I'm pretty excited.

Let's get started.
